# pandas-challenge
4th homework assignment
Important note: PyCitySchool_homework4 is the completed assignment. 
The following is code using pandas in Jupyter to look at data from schools with different budgets and types. First we combine data from two csv sheets with student and school commonality. Next we get some basic data together on a dataframe to start building evidence for an assessement on how school size, school types, and budgets can affect grades. By the end of this analysis we can see from the data presented the following: larger schools tend to have subpar grades on average, we see that the top schools with reference to grades are all charter schools and the bottom schools with reference to grades are all district schools, and finally budget does not seem to have bearing on achieving good grades or likewise with poor performance.
In going through this data, there are a few things we can see. First, and this is very interesting to me, the less you spend per student the better they do. In output 28, we see a comparison of school grades (in reading and math) with respect to how much is spent on each student. While the range is not that wide, we still see the highest percentage of overall passing the spending range for these students was on the lower side. Next school size measured in small, medium, and large (seen in output 30) shows evidence that smaller schools have better grades. We see in output 32, clearly large schools have a much smaller overall passing percentage, by more than 30 points large schools are worse than small and medium sized schools. Finally, Charter schools test far better than District schools (as seen in output 34). The percentage passing of reading are slightly closer between the two school types (approx. 16 points) but math and overall passing percentages are much farther apart and are much better for Charter schools.
